Welcome back.
Now we're gonna be spending a good chunk of this course building some projects and using some built
in Python modules as well as using some popular third party libraries from Python package index however
I wanted to just show you a quick video on some of the useful modules that I personally like in the
built in modules that we have from Python and some of these really useful modules actually allow us
to have more data types in Python.
Remember this list at the beginning of the course where I talked about the data types that comes with
Python and then we learned about classes and how we're able to create our own data types our own objects
in Python but we also have these specialized data types that come as well built into this python Standard
Library which are really really nice and this can make our programs really really powerful.
Now they're specialized because you're not going to see them everywhere but it's good to know that they
exist.
And I'm going to go over some of my favorite The first one I'm going to show you is the collection module.
So the collection module is from collection or collections and there's three things that I really like
here.
So I'm going to say import I'm going to import the counter the default dictionary and then the ordered
dictionary
now notice how some of them are classes because they're capital letters and some of them look to be
just a function and you can read up on the collections module by just again scrolling through here and
just looking at collections and you can see all the ones that we have so in these collections.
Let's start off with the first one a counter is extremely useful let's say I have a list that contains
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and I want to count how many items in a list if I do print counter you can see over here
what it does.
But essentially if I give it a list and click Run.
All right what just happened here.
It creates a dictionary where one has 1 2 has 1 3 has 1.
What if we add another seven here let's say seven.
If I click a run
do you see that seven now has to.
So what it does is it creates a dictionary that keeps track of how many times an item occurred in an
admirable.
So that seven occur twice.
So seven has a value of two another way we can use this is let's say we have a sentence and say in the
sentence I want to check.
Well let's just write something I'll say blah blah blah.
Thinking about Python.
If I was to do a counter here and let's say give it a sentence if I click Run check that I see which
letter occurred the most in our case H occurred five times.
Space occurred five times and then B occurred four times.
And this is really really cool because this type of calculation of a counter of turning an item like
a list into what we call a hash map or a dictionary like this to keep count is actually a very useful
function that you see all over programming.
It actually helps a lot with optimization problems.
Now we were not going to get into it there but I just wanted to show you that counter is something that
is really really useful if you want to count duplicate users or duplicate emails counter can be really
really useful.
What about the next one.
Default Dick God that's a really hard word to say.
All right.
So let's say we have a dictionary here and this dictionary will have while a very insignificant dictionary
will have a one and B to what a simple dictionary.
Now in here I can say dictionary dot or bracket a.
And I'll be able to grab the value right if I click Run.
And I did not spell dictionary right.
Let's fix that
let's comment this out for now because we don't need this you'll see that I get a value of one but if
I tried to access something that doesn't exist like C I'll get an error with a default dictionary.
I'm actually going to get a default value if something doesn't exist.
So let's convert this into a default dictionary like this.
And now if I run this we get an error first argument must be callable or not.
So what default dict does is it allows us to access a key like this but give it a default value.
In our case we need to give it something like a callable object in here and callable means something
like a function that can be called.
So if I do run I get zero.
Why is that.
Well when I run int like this with nothing inside of it we get zero so a shorthand way because this
is going to be run is to give it a quick function that we're not going to use.
So let's just do a lambda and just give it let's say five.
So now if I run this let's do a dictionary here
and let's try and grab something that doesn't exist.
If I click Run I get five.
So this is a common pattern you see with default dict we just give it a value or a callable object in
our case we're just giving it this function a lambda function that simply returns 5 so I can even say
in here doesn't does not exist.
The second parameter will be whatever we want.
And if I hit run I get.
Does not exist even though I'm accessing a key that well doesn't exist.
Now if I do a here and I click run everything worse I still get one and if I do B.
I get run as well.
Again another useful little data take next one is ordered dict and this one is another interesting one.
An ordered dictionary retains the order that you insert into a dictionary.
Let me show you.
So if we have let's say dictionary and this dictionary will be an order dictionary.
So this is how we create it.
Now in here if I do d equals to a and this is going to equal to 1 and then D B is going to equal to
2 and I now copy this and make a second dictionary let's say D2 D2 D2 and I check Hey print does D to
equal D.
Remember this is going to check for the values if I run this I get true.
Yep they're equal but if I change the order of insertion here and I click Run I get false.
Sorry this is not the same thing because it maintains the order.
If this was a regular dictionary so let's say instead of what we have here I'm going to just simply
create a dictionary and we'll just we'll just do a simple C here that has o say 100 and do the same
for this one as well.
D2 equals to this if I now run this I get true because all the keys and values are the same with a regular
dictionary.
We don't really care.
There's no order and I mentioned this before to write a dictionary in Python has no sense of order although
when we print out the keys we might get things in order as our dictionary gets larger and larger.
There's no guarantee that when we print out all the keys that we're gonna get them in order.
In the case of an ordered dictionary though we get that guarantee.
Now there are some performance implications for those.
However overall it can be useful in some situations right.
A few more to go through but this video is getting long so let's take a break and I'll see in the next
video by.